#Project 1
* Software Used: XQuarts
* Accessing the code: Make sure you have VPN access by signing into Boise State offcampus (or oncampus) VPN. Then download XQuarts (if you have a mac like myself), and open a new terminal by going to the 'Applications' menu. Once you have a terminal open, sign in using an ssh key with your Boise State username. Once you have logged on you can find the code in the folder 'p1-start' which you can get to by using the command 'cd' to change the directory to 'p1-start'. Once you have entered this file you can start using the code to graph data and find the Youngs Modulus from the data. The code is stored in 'plot.py', in order to get to the code and edit it if needed type "vim plot.py." To edit press 'i', to get out (and save) press 'esc' then ":wq".
* Running the data: Now that "p1-start" is open you can start using the code. In order to use the code type "python plot.py rawdata/" then type in whatever file you want to run. Once you press enter, the code will run and you should get both a graph, and a value for the Youngs Modulus.
* Note: tab completition is very helpful, once you have typed the correct first few letters of a file you can press the tab button and the computer will automatically type in what you are looking for. If there are multiple files with the same first part of the name, type the next letter of the file you need and it will autocomplete. If you do not know the file name you can enter rawdata/ by using the cd command, and then type "ls" to see what those files are called.
* Example of running code: Step one, open terminal. Step two, type in "ssh username." Step three, "cd p1-start". Step four, "python plot.py rawdata/ Sp(whatever file you want)" then press enter. Then a graph of the data will show. The blue line is just the data, the red line will be the linear fit of the data. After this a value for the Youngs Modulus should appear with units.

* What I Learned: The first thing I felt I learned in this project is how to navigate in this terminal. Before the project I could not tell you how to add, remove, or even change files in the directory. Now I atleast feel proficient enough to try new code by myself without needing help ever step of the way. The second thing I learned was how to push files to github. I learned how to use the "git add," "git commit," and "git push" in order to share my work with other people in the class. I now see how important it is to learn how to do this. Without the help of peers (and github) this project would be much more challenging to complete.
